AIM207-R4 Notes

RL for the Sunday Driver

1.	AI: capability of software to act intelligently, like a human
2.	ML: train software to do tasks in a smarter way based on a bunch of data
    a.	Supervised: Example-driven training; every datum has a corresponding label
    b.	Unsupervised: No labels for training data
    c.	Reinforcement: Learns through consequences of actions in a specific environment
3.	RL Terms
    a.	Agent: Entity or software that is trying to learn
    b.	Environment: What the agent is trying to learn in
    c.	State: The observed response of the environment
    d.	Action: The actions available to agent
    e.	Reward: Some function to determine good behavior vs bad behavior
    f.	Episode: Agent moving from Initial State to Terminal State (one iteration of actions)
    g.	Terminal State: End state of the agent (goes off track or finishes lap)
4.	Reward function is the most important piece of RL!!
    a.	Key part of DeepRacer Competition
5.	Exploration vs Exploitation
    a.	Exploration: not much learning, still exploring environment
    b.	Exploitation: improved decisions based on past experiences
6.	Value function
    a.	Given the agent’s current state, what is the maximum reward that can be earned
    b.	Can’t brute force all options to identify optimal, approximate a policy
        i.	Policy approximation: approximate the optimal policy instead of the value function
7.	When training an RL model optimizing for LONG TERM reward
    a.	Maximize reward over the lifetime
8.	Rollout: Number of episodes you want to run (hyperparameter)
9.	Build a NN that is the car’s policy (aka the driver)
10.	Gradient: rate of change of a function
11.	Gradient Ascent: we are maximizing, so looking for peak reward (NN optimized based on slope of function increasing the most)
12.	Simple reward function + deeper NN allows the model to learn on its own with less constraints
13.	Available parameters to write a reward function:
    a.	Track wall
    b.	Field aka off-track
    c.	Track surface aka on-track
    d.	Track boundaries
    e.	Track center
